---
layout: post
title: Coherent Point Drift- Non Rigid Formulation
categories: Computer Vision
tags:
mathjax: true
comments: true
---
 
Recently while testing [Coherent Point Drift](https://arxiv.org/pdf/0905.2635.pdf) for the task of non-rigid registration, I noticed that while the predictions for correspondences seemed plausible, they were not totally correct. That lead me to think of the best ways to quantify the uncertainty. Also, I wondered if the **size information** of the gaussian could be encoded within the Coherent Point Drift formulation, because for most nuclei, the prediction of the size was accurate.

Another concern for me is that Coherent Point Drift allows a mapping where many input (moving) gaussians can correspond to one output (fixed) point, but one input gaussian can not correspond to many output points. This behaviour would be something to play with especially when the points in the both the input and output sets have some outliers, and hence more flexibility is needed. Perhaps instead of looking at the correspondences, I should instead look at the posterior values and only take those which are above a certain threshold. 

Lastly, I reallised that the theory of non-rigid transformation is not very clear to me. How is the choice of  $$\lambda$$ in the regularisation term explained, for example?

In order to solve these questions, I prepared five sets of point-pair data. This data originates from consecutive time frames of a time lapse movie showing the dividing nuclei of a developing embryo. Both the time frames in question are used as input and output, thus giving us access to 10 simulations for each of the versions below. 

## Version 0

In this version, ground truth data for the point locations are used, thus eliminating any biases originating from the detection algorithm. At this stage, I might consider porting the code to pytorch.

Here, there was no error seen while going from the early time point to the later time point.Also, it was fine going from the later time point to the earlier timepoint.


## Version 1

In this version, the nuclei are detected using the Laplacian of Gaussian Scale-Space Approach. Next, the Coherent Point Drift formulation is altered so that instead of assuming a constant size of the gaussian, it assumes the specified size.

Here, we noticed that the performance is sped up considerably : it converges in 4 iterations and that the registration is more robust to changes in lambda. (For the vanilla-CPD, setting lambda equal to zero led to very low performance for the non-rigid case!)

Is the lambda equal to zero equivalent to affine-CPD case? No, because in the non-rigid scenario, the transformation changes to the Tikhonov form. So setting lambda equal to zero does not completely turn off the non-rigid evaluation. 

## Version 2

Can the size information be encoded as a property of the gaussian? (See [this](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1802.01516.pdf) for example) In the future, we could replace the size with any property for a even more robust prediction.




 


 






 
